# Dual-Axis-Solar-Tracker-Using-Arduino
Rotate solar panel through LDR by using servo motor. We have proposed solar panel to control the panel that it should face the sun till it is present in the day. To minimize the cost of installation and operation providing high reliability.
The two-axis tracker ensures that the solar panel absorbs maximum sunlight to generate maximum electricity. The two separate axis control system that would benefit the solar panel and increase its rate of generating energy. The goal of the control system is to automatically position and tilt the solar panel towards the strongest line of light. The first axis is in charge of tilting the solar panel left and right towards the strongest side of light. The second axis enables rotation of the entire system so that the first axis can tilt in the direction of the light with highest intensity.
This project presents a dual axis solar tracking system using Arduino. The main objective of this project is to show that the tracker follows the sun accurately in dual axis mode. The work is distinguished into a hardware and software part. In hardware part, four light dependent resistors (LDR) is used to detect the utmost light source from the sun. These LDR’s are then connected to an IR Module to work as a receiver for it.

Two servo motors are jointly used to rotate the solar tracker model towards the maximum light source location perceived by the LDR’s through the IR modules. In software part, the code is written by using C programming language and is targeted to the Arduino UNO controller. Finally it was seen that the dual axis tracker tracks the sun throughout the year more accurately than a single axis tracker. Also it follows the sun at all times from sunrise till sunset directly making it a better alternative than a static panel.  
